the blue-collar town of Joliet Illinois
is located just 45 miles southwest of
Chicago some of its most notable
residents include Lionel Richie Mike
Alstott and George Mikan but no one
embodies the spirit of the city more
than Daniel rüdiger better known as Rudy
he was an undersized walk-on a Notre
Dame whose story was brought to life on
the big screen but before Notre Dame he
was part of a proud tradition at Joliet
Catholic High School that tradition
includes 13 state titles and it's 92
year history now the hilltoppers appear
to be on the verge of another thanks to
senior tailback ty Isaac at 63 and 220
pounds i think is a gazelle on the
football field there's a couple he may
be gone as he enters his fourth and
final season to play shattered most
every school record including a 515
yards six touchdown performance against
montini in the state title game yeah
it's a state championship team so it's
also an Illinois record state record you
know for 515 yards I mean he had 300
yards at halftime and then it was
unbelievable a lot of a lot of long runs
it felt like man we were on the field
for about four or five players we'd
score and faithful and we'd be right
back out it was one of the greatest
performances I was seeing by a running
back and buy our offensive line both was
just tremendous tremendous crematoria
unfortunately we couldn't stop him
despite the record-breaking performance
Joliet Catholic came up just short of
winning at sport to eat sake title last
year was recruiting season just you know
passing up a lot of people and just one
season and you know breaking a lot of
Records it was nice accolades but you
know I would see we didn't get
we needed for head coach Dan sharp
living up to the expectations of the
fans has become increasingly difficult
for the football program of Julia cap
but we're going into our 93rd season
it's a tradition that's a big part of
our community and it's been an honor for
me to be able to come back here very
humble then and the challenge is always
to live up to the standards that were
sent by those that came before us and we
see that when you talk to Ty's dad and
tie and then we have many fathers songs
that have played their uncles brothers
and the tradition is just long lived
here highs father Tyrone was a standout
tail back in the late 1980s and moving
Russia Iran a state championship team at
Joliet Catholic his senior season that
says it's a great deal because you have
a lot of fungus on combinations but
where'd you haven't play in the same
position and in a position of running
back which is a premier position here at
Joliet Catholic and they have the
quality of running back the Tyrone was
he was here and hopefully this team to
stay tip-tippy and now you have ty Isaac
his son who could be the one of the
greatest players in school history that
busy comes out here it's it's remarkable
I didn't know the tradition about you
know the football program and the school
when I first in it is the freshman and I
can remember going the football practice
and so forth and you know coaches
talking about the tradition and this and
that and I don't get it you know I I
just don't get it but by the time I
graduated I fully understood I wish that
the first college that I went to would
had tradition like that
I remember telling my tie from the time
he's a little kid about tradition you
know about you know look at these stands
I go when you get to play here some of
these same people will be in the stands
and it's true i mean its people in the
stands from when i played although he's
quick to admit that he pales in
comparison he's hoping that history will
repeat itself if it does he plans on
buying a state championship ring for
himself when he couldn't afford the
first time around and of course one for
his son yeah I'd be something special
you know what I'm saying to have
something we can share like that I know
he's on the sideline for every game and
the journey through the season into
playoffs it's it's big for everybody
involved so I think that'd be really
cool if we got one this will be my
fourth year and every year we've been
going for you know state championship
number 14 so you know we've been on a
grind floor for a long time and you know
coming in you really don't realize how
important it is to see all the other
teams winning but you know the sense of
urgency is so high this year since it's
my last year and do anything we can to
get it playing at a traditional
powerhouse like Joliet Catholic is
something that he's enjoyed and will
look to replicate after graduation well
he attends USC so I just wanted to find
a place where I felt like I fit with the
people in the program the players um you
know obviously with the football the
social life and uh you know when I got
out there I really liked all the players
on the team all the kids that were
coming in with my class that I'm
committed to and just the coaches and
everybody involved with the program you
know I felt real comfortable and can't
be four locations while winning that
elusive state title serves as the
immediate goal Isaac suture beyond that
includes dreams of a national
championship and a Heisman Trophy while
those may seem like lofty goals for most
that's not the case for Isaac's he is
considered by many to be the top running
back in the class of 2013 I think the
combination of the player is the person
is you know I think he can meet any
challenge so like I said it would not
surprise me one bit
end up on the top of all the records
when it's all said and done